Welcome to the program, brothers and sisters.
During the next hour, you'll hear the story of a brother
who previously protected the president of a country.
But seeing the love among God's people made him refocus his life
to bearing witness about the sovereign of the universe.
We cherish our international brotherhood.
Our brothers and sisters in the former Soviet Union
took great risks during the Cold War to convey their love
to fellow witnesses on the other side of the globe.
Does our love for Jehovah motivate us to avoid living a double life?
This dramatization will remind us of key principles to protect us
when we're tempted to draw closer to Satan's world.
This is the July program of JW Broadcasting.
In the book, Inside on the Scriptures, under the heading Christian,
it makes clear that claiming to be Christian requires more than simply
a mere confession of faith.
It is more than being a nominal Christian, a Christian in name only.
For example, according to the Bible, it is necessary that belief
be demonstrated by works, not just words.
And since we were born as sinners, those who become Christians
need to repent, to turn around, to dedicate their lives to Jehovah,
to worship and serve Him, and then to submit to water baptism.
They must keep themselves clean from fornication, from idolatry,
and from consuming blood.
They are to strip off the old personality, including such things as fits of anger,
obscene talk, lying, stealing, drunkenness.
And as Galatians chapter 5 says, things like these.
Yes, they are to bring their lives into accord with Bible principles.
Christians are to be kind and considerate, mild tempered, and patient,
and are to exercise self-control.
They provide and care for their own, and love their neighbor, as themselves.
That's a lot, isn't it?
It's not a matter of just glibbly saying, I am a Christian.
But despite all of those impressive characteristics that we just enumerated,
what did Jesus say the main identifying quality of a true Christian would be?
Most of you know the answer to that.
But let's read it again from John 13, 34, and 35.
It says, I am giving you a new commandment that you love one another,
just as I have loved you.
You also love one another.
By this all will know that you are my disciples, if you have love among yourself.
Those are the theme verses for my discussion with you this month.
The topic is love, the identifying mark of a disciple of Jesus.
Did you notice in verse 34 that Jesus said that he was giving them at that time a new commandment?
But it sounds like a very old commandment, doesn't it?
Why over 1,500 years before Jesus said that the words we just read,
the law given to Moses said, you must love your fellow man as yourself, Leviticus 1918.
So what was new about Jesus' command in John chapter 13?
He said that true Christians were to love each other just as I have loved you.
That is what was different.
That was new.
Not just love the other person as you love yourself, but love him just like Jesus loved his followers.
Well, what kind of love would that be?
Self-sacrificing love.
And usually we think of Jesus' ultimate sacrifice, his willingly giving his life,
so that we might have the hope of everlasting life.
But when you think about it, that aspect of Jesus' love was simplified and a self-sacrificing death.
Now it's true that as a Christian we might, at some time, have to give our life for a fellow Christian.
But we hope it doesn't come to that.
So instead of talking about a self-sacrificing death,
we want to discuss showing this new kind of love as evidenced in a self-sacrificing life.
Not necessarily our death.
You see, Jesus' life, his three-and-a-half year ministry,
was a self-sacrificing life of loving others.
In addition to doing good when something requires it,
a true follower of Jesus is to take the initiative to help others spiritually and otherwise.
He has to work actively for their good.
They preaching and teaching of the good news to others,
some of whom may even be hostile,
is one of the greatest expressions of love,
for it can result in everlasting life to the recipients.
However, according to Paul's words at 1 Thessalonians 2 verse 8,
a true Christian must impart not only the good news of God,
but also his very self in helping those who accept the good news.
It's that kind of love that Jesus said would be an identifying mark of his disciples,
not specifically that his followers would all be dying for each other,
but more so that they would all be living for each other.
Yes, displaying self-sacrificing love for one another every day of their lives.
The four gospels are a treasure trove of Jesus' self-sacrificing love,
and yet they do not cover his actions every day of his life as the Christ.
History in a half-year ministry amounts to nearly 1,300 days of life and love.
The written record of Jesus' life is admittedly brief,
but it is grand indeed.
However, the reality of observing Jesus every day must have been far grander than what we have in print.
What we have in print might be likened to a photo album of Jesus' life,
some snap shots.
By comparison, what his apostles' experience with Jesus' day after day
was like a continuous video of his example of love.
No wonder that at John, chapter 21, verse 25, the apostles said,
there are also many other things that Jesus did,
which if ever they were written in full detail,
I suppose the world itself could not contain the scrolls written.
It said there were many other things.
Jesus did not many other things that he said, but that he did.
Yes, deeds or acts demonstrating his self-sacrificing life of love.
We already mentioned the all-important preaching work as being an act of love on our part,
but how else do we manifest the most obvious trait of a genuine Christian?
Love like Jesus had.
Let's start by thinking of the elders and the congregation.
At the Philippians chapter 2, verse 17,
Paul said that he had poured himself out to the congregation like a drink offering.
What did that mean?
It meant that he drained himself out, both physically and emotionally,
to support the Philippians.
Many of the elders in our congregations have the same self-sacrificing love for those under their care.
They give of their time to shepherd and readjust those in need.
They take the lead in the ministry.
They respond when there is a serious health issue or tragedy.
They pour themselves out for the friends, thus identifying themselves as disciples of Christ.
But we do not have to be an elder to provide a word of encouragement, Dewey.
If we all keep focused on others in the congregation, not just ourselves,
we will know who needs to be bolstered because of trials or circumstances that they face.
Giving in this way is evidence of Christ-like love.
You may be thinking,
but I am just a little old sister who finds it hard to squeeze out a word of encouragement to others.
Perhaps you do not have to say anything.
Just be there at the meetings or in the service.
When others see your face, they are encouraged.
Follow along as I read Acts chapter 28 and verse 15.
It reads,
From there the brothers when they heard the news about us came as far as the marketplace of Appius and three taverns to meet us.
On catching sight of them,
Paul thanked God and took courage.
Paul took courage just by seeing the brothers who came out to meet Him.
You encourage your brothers and sisters by your presence.
Please follow along as I read Philippians chapter 2, 1 through 4.
Paul here describes it as encouragement in Christ.
He says,
If then there is any encouragement in Christ.
If any consolation of love,
if any spiritual fellowship,
if any tender affection and compassion,
make my joy full by being of the same mind and having the same love,
being completely united, having the one thought in mind,
do nothing out of contentiousness or out of egotism but with humility.
Consider others superior to you.
As you look out not only for your own interests,
but also for the interests of others.
Did you notice the self-sacrificing aspect of this love and encouragement?
Yes, he talked about having love,
but then he said,
Not for your own interests,
but for the interests of others.
That type of love in the interests of others
is the identifying mark of true Christians.
What about visiting the sick in your congregation
or those who are housebound?
Sometimes these dear ones are out of sight, out of mind.
We visit with those we see when at the kingdom hall,
but do we think about those who are shut-ins?
What was a major part of Jesus' loving acts went on earth?
Our numerous accounts of Jesus and His apostles healing the sick.
It's true that we cannot heal the sick,
but it is in our power to visit the sick.
And what a healing that is to their spirit.
It means so much when they are not just prayed for at a meeting,
but when those words of prayer are backed up with an act of love,
a visit to them in person,
that is Christ-like love and action.
Why not scroll down the list of those in your service group
with the thought in mind of checking on those
who have been missing from the meetings?
Do they need a meal?
Do they need some help?
Perhaps around the house?
Do they need transportation to the doctor?
Can we allow our love to expand to fill their needs?
Contributing to the worldwide work,
which cares for the needs of our brothers around the world,
is another act of love.
It demonstrates that we are a true disciple of Christ.
Related to that, many of you have at your own expense traveled
to far-fung places to help rebuild after a natural disaster history.
The overwhelming response from the victims is evidence
of your self-sacrificing life and love for your brothers.
It is hoped that the reminder of Jesus at John 1334 and 35
will be good for all of us,
not just for this month,
but for our whole course of life.
You know about one-third of the world's population claims to be Christian,
but how many of them show self-sacrificing love outside of their immediate family.
Most are like a baseball team in a uniform.
They think having the word Christian emblazoned across the front of their uniform
is all that is required.
However, most of them simply sit on the bench or on a pew entrance.
And many do not even attend the game.
They do not live the life of a Christian.
Jesus made clear that being a true disciple of his is not merely wearing a uniform.
Simply claiming to be his follower.
No, it involves actively demonstrating works of love,
swing hard for the team,
imitating the all-time greatest examples of love,
Jehovah God and his son Jesus Christ.
As Paul said his second Corinthians chapter 8 verse 8,
we need to test the genuineness of our love.
Yes, we need to daily prove that we are a genuine disciple of Jesus.
Brother Ryan Mueller will now share some examples of how the Bible principles we just discussed
have helped people around the world, Alex.
Thank you, Brother Heard, for that warm encouragement.
We're more motivated than never to prove our love for Jehovah and others.
We recently met Mamuka Taktu Manashvili from the country of Georgia.
He was a high-ranking officer in the special forces there for many years.
What made him realize that defending his country is not the highest honor a man can have in his life?
This is his story.
For 18 years I served in a special unit responsible for presidential security.
This mission demanded total self-sacrifice.
For example, the first and the last vehicles of the presidential escort belong to this unit.
So if an attack occurred on the president, we were the first ones to be hit with the fire.
For the last 10 years of service, I worked as an instructor and trained new staff to provide presidential security in the future.
Those working in this field must be fearless.
They must be professionals.
And that is what I taught to succeeding generations.
I just love my job.
I was a fervent patriot.
I had a special regard for the flag of my country.
In one bag, I always had weapons and the flag.
Patriotism was so deep-rooted in me that I would beat up a person simply because he was of another nationality.
I always thought that God would never allow people like me to draw close to him.
One day, Jehovah's Witnesses came and preached to my wife and me.
We were so interested in the truth that my wife even expressed the desire to study the Bible.
Because there were rumors circulating about Jehovah's Witnesses,
I decided first to make sure that everything was decent that their meetings,
and only then allow my wife to associate with them.
After the meeting, I was absolutely thrilled.
Everyone was well-mannered with friendly smiling faces.
I realized that there was nothing there to threaten my wife's well-being.
On the contrary, their association would be beneficial for her.
Soon my wife and our eldest daughter got baptized.
As for me, I enjoyed associating with Jehovah's Witnesses.
Later, I also started to study the Bible.
I knew that I had to make drastic changes in my life,
but my job prevented me from doing so.
Moreover, I felt that door-to-door preaching was far more difficult than engaging in combat.
I respected Jehovah's Witnesses for their courage and strength.
Little by little, I too was changing for the better.
I wanted to quit my job and inform my colleagues about my religious beliefs.
So I wrote down all the Bible verses I had recently learned
and then pinned them on the wall in my office.
I also started to think about how to make a living after leaving my job
and decided to learn a trade.
I started to buy tools in order to be ready to take care of my family.
I realized that the time had come to make a decision.
The day I quit my job was one of the happiest days of my life.
Since then, I have been able to dedicate every minute of my life to Jehovah
with a clean conscience.
In a few months, I got baptized.
In the beginning, we were hardly making a living.
However, this taught me to trust in Jehovah.
I tried my best to keep service to Jehovah in first place.
I deeply appreciate the support of my brothers and sisters and association with them.
Before, I used to carry out the orders of men,
some of which I carried out reluctantly.
But now I am happy to carry out an assignment from Jehovah
with the same spirit that the prophet Isaiah had, who said,
here I am, send me.
As a family, we decided to move where the need was greater.
And this has united our family even more.
This is the bag in which I always carried weapons.
But now they are replaced with the Bible and Bible literature.
In the past, I thought I could never preach from door to door.
But now I can say with conviction that the words of Jesus have proved true in my case.
All things are possible with God.
Brother Tech to Manashvili now serves as an elder.
And he's also been a regular pioneer since 2014.
While Brother Tech to Manashvili served the government for many years,
there are those who live on the other side of the law.
How does Jehovah's Unprejudiced love reach out to them?
Join us as we travel to the Democratic Republic of Congo in Africa,
where our brothers make special efforts to reach people we would not normally find from door to door.
I could say that my past was really an unhappy past.
I went through very difficult times during my childhood.
I lost hope that I could ever have a better life.
Because of that, I started to associate with the wrong people in my life.
One night I was arrested and sent a bolo prison.
It is a high security prison in Congo.
Prison is a very dangerous place.
But I was surprised how they accepted the truth so easily.
Really, I was amazed.
We needed to obtain permission to be able to continue to preach in the prison.
I had so enjoyed the preaching work there.
I went to see the authorities in the city to find out what was required
so that we could have permission to preach in the prison.
To my great amazement, they simply handed me a paper and told me to put my request in writing.
They asked me to wait.
Within minutes, I had the authorization in my hands without paying anything at all.
Every time the situation seemed insurmountable to us, impossible to us.
We saw the hand of Jehovah providing us with the suitable solution.
The authorization gave a great boost to the special witnessing initiative.
In harmony with 1 Corinthians 9 verses 22 and 23,
the brothers could then become all things to people of all sorts,
so that they might by all possible means save some.
Some religious leaders, who were also prisoners, were extremely opposed to our presence.
They conspired and had us thrown out of our meeting place.
The prisoners themselves were concerned about this.
They found another meeting place even more spacious than the former.
Since Boulevard is 8 kilometers away from our congregation,
to transport the group who support the preaching organ meetings,
the body of elders organized too many buses to go out every Saturday to Boulevard.
Once they arrived, they began the preaching work at 8.30 and at 10 o'clock the meetings start.
All the meetings of the week are held on the Saturday.
Concerning Jehovah's Witnesses personally, I'm very impressed.
It's more than three years, they've been more active in helping the detainees.
The re-education of the prisoners is assured by Jehovah's Witnesses.
This is a good collaboration on the part of Jehovah's Witnesses.
With this, I'm very happy.
175 attended the Circuit Assembly in December 2014,
which was held in the prison, and seven were baptized.
Local media covered the event.
This is the first time I've seen Jehovah's Witnesses baptized here in the Boulevard prison.
This is a good thing. I encourage you to continue with this assistance.
Every week, there are more than 18 attendants, and sometimes more than that, even 140.
In the attendance, there are the 36 publishers, the brothers who learned the truth in Boulevard prison,
30 are baptized and 6 are baptized.
I visited many churches because I had a lot of questions,
but I never got any exact answers.
When I went to see Jehovah's Witnesses, they gave me accurate answers from the Bible
to know that Jehovah is compassionate and ready to forgive these other qualities that touched me.
I used to be a soldier. I was in the military.
I attended various churches because I had a question that bothered me a lot.
I wondered why God allows bad things to happen to people all the time.
While I was in prison, Jehovah's Witnesses came to visit and talk to us.
I asked them the same question, why does God allow sickness and suffering to continue?
They replied by using three Bible verses.
I was very happy because I received the answer to my question.
Papiokito is a brother who learned the truth in prison.
He made such remarkable progress that those in charge now have confidence in him.
Like Joseph in the Bible, he has been placed in a position of supervision over the other prisoners.
He also made further progress, and thus the management has requested that his prison sentence be reduced.
When I arrived in the prison, I had lost hope.
I thought for me it was the end.
By means of the Bible, I have found joy and hope in my life.
That is why today I am happy, even though I am still here, but I know that the paradise is for me.
It has been five years since the brothers started preaching in the Bulu prison.
At times, the publishers placed up to 500 magazines in one weekend.
Although our success is not measured by the number of placements,
this response does paint a clear picture of the spiritual thirst among these prisoners.
In the last few months, inside these prison walls, 11 more unbaptized publishers have been approved.
What a loving act by Jehovah and his organization to help such individuals satisfy their spiritual needs.
In the late 1950s, the opposition against Jehovah's Witnesses in the former Soviet Union resulted in homes being searched,
brothers being followed, and many of our brothers and sisters being sent to communist concentration camps in Siberia among other places.
In 1956 and 1957, over 462,000 convention delegates worldwide unanimously adopted a petition,
which clearly outlined the treatment Jehovah's Witnesses were enduring.
It was sent to the Soviet authorities, but sadly not much changed.
The next year, at the 1958 International Convention at Yankee Stadium in New York,
a talk was given entitled Behind the Iron Curtain.
During the talk, delegates were surprised when a recording of greetings and songs from brothers and sisters in the Soviet Union was played.
Despite the risk of losing their freedom, the brothers produced and sent these recordings.
Well, a few months ago, some of those who were involved in making the recording were able to listen to it for the first time.
Several of them found out only then that the recording had been played at the convention at Yankee Stadium.
Our team was present at that gathering.
The brothers told us to prepare songs for a recording.
When we were singing, I never imagined that it was for a convention, because I did not know about that.
We sang as usual.
The chorus was made up of about 20 persons, and the recording was made in a room in a barrack-like building.
I just looked after the chorus to give them the right tone.
If someone sang a little off key, she would right away remark,
halt us, you are off, or tenor, you are off, so that there would be no slips, no mistakes.
We had to be very careful when we were recording.
And so we knew not to talk. I could not tell anyone about it.
It was secret, absolutely secret.
They chose a brother who spoke very good Russian, who had good intonation, and who had a good voice.
And as I recall, we made the recording on our first attempt.
Brother Yuri Davichin said the greetings.
As the brothers who made the recording told me, the most difficult assignment for them was how to get this recording across the border.
The brothers cut it up into pieces and sewed it into the lining of a jacket, because that's how confidential letters were sent.
One married couple from Poland, who were vacationing in Russia, agreed to take it back with them, to take it out of the Soviet Union.
And that's where they ran into serious problems.
From Brother Shiders letter, we received the audio recording in Poland.
The security officers separated our brother from the others.
Then an officer said to him, please give us the film and the three letters you have with you.
The brother saw now, of course, that there had been a traitor somewhere. He and his wife were now thoroughly searched.
Every square centimeter of their cases was carefully examined, together with their contents.
Then, both were stripped naked.
While this was going on, they yelled at the brother, tell us where you have hidden everything, or to whom you have given it.
They were absolutely convinced that he had everything with him.
Several times, they took him to the office of the Frontier Police and to the Security Police, searching him again and again and being terribly angry.
But they finally had to give up.
They kept him back for 24 hours and questioned him in the presence of 10 specialists.
But he came out victorious.
Sadly, even the brothers who were involved don't know who this couple who brought the tape into Poland was.
And now we have yet a surprise for you. A message directly from our brothers in Russia to this convention.
And now we give you a part of their message to you in Russia.
Thank you so much to all of you, God and God, we can live and work hard.
In the last period, in the end of the Second World War, the real time, the last, quite difficult and difficult path of fighting for the protection of faith and independence in this old world.
However, due to all the difficulties, the defeat, the defeat, the repression, we are also very happy.
We are happy, we have had all the great people come to know the history of the old people, the great people of the past and the great people of Jesus Christ.
Well, for me it was of course a great joy, since the goal was reached after all.
Everything was so wonderful at that time. I really enjoyed it all.
Nothing could describe the joy I felt.
I was overwhelmed with feelings.
These dear brothers and sisters have no regrets.
They are happy that their efforts encourage so many thousands back then and today.
The kind of love these brothers and sisters showed is often noticed by those not in the truth.
A young couple from the United States, Jeremiah and Holly Draper,
experienced just that.
The blessings that I enjoy today are so numerous.
I have a true inner sense of joy and happiness.
I can't help but be appreciative, so grateful for all that Jehovah does.
But it wasn't always this way for us.
It wasn't always this way for us.
It was a dark world growing up.
I never knew what being a child was like.
I was afraid of who I would grow up to be.
I felt like I had no choice.
I did at a very young age, I as well started to partake of what I saw going on around me.
I learned quickly that it helps numb the feelings that I had.
Drugs were a way to escape that.
I was in a lot of trouble with the law.
I knew I needed change.
So I joined the military at a young age.
Around my teenage years, my life became difficult.
I started to turn to drugs and alcohol and self-destructive ways.
But none of these things were making me happy.
I was very lonely.
No one knew me.
No one cared to know me.
I felt so lost.
And I was trying to fill this big hole in my heart with so many things.
And none of it worked.
One of my many car accidents due to drugs and alcohol.
Ended me up in jail for 30 days straight.
I felt like a hopeless mass.
I just knew something's got to change.
So I joined the military thinking it was going to be the positive, great change that I needed.
But it was not.
I remember joining the military, hoping that it would bring some sort of authority into my life.
But I again started to spiral into my anger, my alcohol and drug abuse.
The military decided to let me out.
But during deployment is where I met Holly.
Holly also got out of the military.
And we started to live a life together.
But we were still searching for something to fill the emptiness that we both felt in our lives.
Jeremiah and I were both working in a steel factory in Montana.
During this time, I was being trained on a drill by one of Jova's witnesses, a sister named Molly.
Molly said, you're going to have downtime on this machine.
Maybe a couple hours, so feel free to read whatever I have in my toolbox.
I opened it and immediately a little yellow book.
What does the Bible really teach caught my eye?
I love the pictures, the scriptures and the beginning of the book.
They touched my heart immediately.
And I felt like these answer all the questions I've been searching for my entire life.
Another sister came over, her name was Corey.
And she said, Molly and I can come over and we can talk to you about the Bible tomorrow.
If you have any questions, we'd love to answer them using the Bible.
I said, yes, come over.
I was a little bit more apprehensive.
I stayed just to make sure nothing got weird.
But this was finally something very different.
And I realized what they were saying came from the Bible.
I've never seen that before.
They invited us to the Kingdom Hall.
We went in, everybody had their Bible, had time to look the scriptures up together.
And everybody was so warm and inviting.
These were the people I've been searching for my entire life.
All of a sudden change was possible.
We knew what changes we needed to make in our life.
What we were doing, our actions, we had to clear out things that Jehovah hates.
Like, just going through our house and deciding what it is, do we need to get rid of?
By allowing the truth to transform our lives, Holly and I have received many blessings.
And eventually, we were able to come here together and serve at Bethel.
We got the truth in a world shop.
And now I get to weld here in Jehovah's house for him.
I perform maintenance on water fountains, refrigerators, coolers.
Being trained by the brothers and sisters I work with just helps me to refine my Christian personality.
It's so nice to know that Jehovah is looking down on us.
That he was able to see through all of the trash that was there in our life.
He was able to find something and decided to work with it.
And I really think of a scripture Psalm 145 verse 19.
He satisfies the desire of those who fear him.
He hears their cries for help and rescues them.
Jehovah did that for us.
If you asked Jehovah to display his hand in your life, no doubt at all in my mind that will happen.
Did you notice how Jeremiah and Holly were touched by the Christian love shown to them when they visited the kingdom hall for the first time?
Jeremiah said that everybody was so warm and inviting.
Yes, love truly is the identifying mark of Jesus' disciples.
But Jesus taught that love for fellow believers in our neighbor is second to our love for Jehovah.
Being kind and encouraging to others is of little value if it's not rooted in a deep desire to please our Heavenly Father.
In the following dramatization, a young brother is reminded of the value of carefully examining his heart.
My name is Sean.
I was raised in the truth.
I was doing everything right.
But I was doing everything wrong.
I was in my senior year of high school.
Everything was going great.
Until this new girl joined our school, I really don't know how it even started.
We just sort of hit it off and became good friends.
I mean, she was so easy to talk to.
Before I knew it, we were texting all the time.
Then, one thing led to another.
Honestly, when things started to get physical, I thought I could control it.
But it was only getting worse.
I didn't want to let my parents down.
So I started lying to them.
And then I started lying to myself.
I thought if I could just keep going to the meetings and do my parts, it could somehow be okay.
But I was far from okay.
The next night, we had family worship.
We were reading about the account of Ananias and his wife, Sophia.
When a special fund was set up for Needy Christians, Ananias sold a field.
But then he boldly claimed he was contributing the entire proceeds of its sale.
In reality, though, Ananias had secretly held back some of the price for his personal gain.
Peter boldly said to him,
You have lied.
Not to men, but to God.
Jehovah wasn't fooled by their pretence.
Then we read Psalm 4421.
God is aware of the secrets of the heart.
Reading this account of Ananias and Sophia made me realize,
I wasn't just lying to my parents or my friends.
I was lying to Jehovah as much as I didn't want to let my parents down.
Even more so, I didn't want to let Jehovah down.
I prayed long that night.
I didn't hold anything back.
By the next morning, I knew what I wanted to do.
It wasn't easy, but my parents were very supportive.
And I also got the help I needed from the elders.
It's been a few years, but as I look back now,
I was one of those kids living in double life.
But now, with Jehovah's help, I'm living the best life.
What a clear warning this is.
Not only for young ones, but also for those of us who've served Jehovah for many, many years.
As we well know, serving Jehovah faithfully for many decades
is only valuable if we endure to the end.
By developing intense love for Jehovah,
we'll be able to overcome whatever temptations or trials we face.
And speaking of enduring to the end,
Brother Mark Sanderson recently spoke at Morning Worship in Bethel
about how our eager expectation of the day of Jehovah
will help us to endure faithfully in this system of things.
A close attention to some of the ways we show such expectation.
Well, here's the question we want to ask this morning.
Is it actually possible to speed up the day of Jehovah?
Well, if we look at our text this morning in 2 Peter 3 and verse 11,
we've had that read for us.
So we know that expression at the end that we should consider
what sort of people you want to be in holy acts of conduct
and deeds of God the devotion.
But then it goes on to say,
as you await and keep close in mind the presence of the day of Jehovah.
Well, now if you look at the footnote on this expression in verse 12,
you'll notice that the expression keep close in mind literally means
to speed up the day of Jehovah.
Well, now how can we do that?
Well, it's true.
We cannot bring the day forward of Jehovah even one day
nor can we move it back even one day.
That is not within our power.
That day is set.
But how can we then speed up the day of Jehovah?
As it says there in verse 12,
well, we keep that day close in our mind.
We never let it be out of our sight.
As the footnote also says,
we eagerly desire it.
Well, now if we're persons like that,
Peter says that we're going to be busy
in deeds of God the devotion.
Well, now just as a quick reminder,
what is God the devotion?
Well, just looking at our new world translation glossary,
here's the definition.
It's reverence, worship,
and service to Jehovah God with loyalty to his universal sovereignty.
Well, what do we get from that definition?
You can notice reverence, worship, service.
You see, godly devotion is not passive.
It's active.
It's reflected in action and inactivity.
That's why the Apostle Peter used the expression in verse 11
deeds of God the devotion.
Well, what are some of the ways that we demonstrate this quality?
Well, some of them are just very small.
For example, what about hospitality?
In 1 Peter, chapter 4,
and verse 9, when the Apostle Peter wrote his first letter,
he said, be hospitable to one another without grumbling.
Well, there are so many opportunities for us to imitate Jehovah
and be hospitable to share with others according to their needs.
And this really is an expression not only for another person,
but it's an expression of our love for Jehovah,
our desire to want to imitate him.
Well, we all acknowledge that.
But here's the question.
When was the last time that you acted hospitably
or when was the last time I acted hospitably?
You see, it's not enough just to love the quality of hospitality.
If we're going to have deeds of God the devotion,
we're going to have to practice it.
Here's another one.
What about helping the elderly that are in our midst?
You know, our elderly brothers need help.
They need help to get to the meetings.
They need help to get out in the field ministry.
Some of them are confined to their homes.
Well, if that's the case, they may need help from younger ones
to assist them with shopping or doing errands
or just doing some chore around the house.
Well, that's something that has been mentioned in many
watched our articles.
It's been mentioned at many conventions and assemblies.
It's been mentioned at many congregation meetings.
But now here's a question.
When was the last time that you did something
for an elderly brother or sister?
Or when was the last time I did?
You see, we need to think about not just loving these ideas,
but what are we doing to really help?
See, that's showing deeds of God the devotion.
Well, of course, we also have to think about the more major things.
What about attending our congregation meetings?
Hebrews chapter 10 verses 23 to 25,
that scripture that we quote so many times
says that we should not forsake our meeting together.
But it goes on to say that we should encourage one another.
So it's not enough just to be at the meeting.
When we're there, we want to reach out
and do everything that we can to encourage our brothers
and really participate in the meeting.
You see, God the devotion is not passive, it's active.
And so what sort of persons ought we to be when we're at the meeting?
Well, we know we want to be active, fully involved with the program.
But now, of course, what's the most important way
that we exercise these deeds of God the devotion?
Well, you'll remember that the Apostle Paul,
in 1 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 16,
referred to the sacred secret of God the devotion.
And he showed there that Jesus really was that secret.
You see, he was the one who demonstrated God the devotion
in a perfect sense.
Now, Paul in that verse, 1 Timothy 3, 16,
went on to say that Jesus was preached among the nations.
Well, then that really is a vital part of our deeds
of God the devotion.
Preaching about Christ Jesus, His kingdom,
and everything that will be accomplished.
But brothers, how much incentive we have today
to be involved fully in our preaching work?
We have tools today like we have never had before.
You know, over the summer, as I was attending a number of different
regional conventions and different parts of the world,
I enjoyed so much, no doubt just as you have,
using the JW Library app.
And downloading the Why Study the Bible video
in a number of different languages.
We had one really interesting experience when we were in Europe.
We got into a taxi with a driver from Africa.
And right away, we asked him what his language was.
Well, he told us it was a language not familiar to us at all.
But while he was driving, we managed to download the Why Study the Bible video.
And it automatically began to play as we were in the car.
Well, as soon as the man heard it, he started shouting,
what's happening? What's happening?
I think he thought he was hearing a voice from heaven
when he heard his own language in the taxi.
But we reassured him that that was not the case.
But he was so moved.
He almost didn't want to take the fare, if you can imagine.
And initially, he had been quite unfriendly.
But when he saw what was available on our website,
he was deeply moved.
Well, maybe you've had a similar experience.
Just as a note of future reference,
probably not a good idea to play the video when someone's driving.
Well, if we have real godly devotion that's active,
we're going to be busy in doing deeds of godly devotion.
You know, there's an old saying that says,
time flies when you're having fun.
Well, you know, even scientists acknowledge that there's truth in that.
A study that was published in the year 2012 in the journal
Psychological Science said this.
Although we tend to believe that time flies when we're having a good time,
these studies indicate that what it is about the enjoyable time
that causes it to go by more quickly.
It seems to be the goal pursuit or achievement-directed action
we're engaged in that matters.
Just being content or satisfied may not make time fly.
But being excited or actively pursuing a desired object can.
Isn't that interesting?
If we're the sort of persons that are busy with holy acts of conduct
and deeds of godly devotion reaching out for that most important goal
of everlasting life, we will speed up the coming of the day of Jehovah
in our hearts and our minds.
What deeds of godly devotion do you remember from that fine presentation?
Among other things, Brother Sanderson explained that one deed of godly devotion
may be hospitable to one another.
Well, hospitality is also the theme of this month's music video,
which is entitled, Follow the Course.
Just talking Jehovah, you put it on a tape
so could we be...
What a nice song.
And while that music video brings this program to its conclusion,
we'd like to encourage you to watch a video that will be posted later this month
about Sister Cindy Macintosh.
She was in the military for many years and described herself as having become a dark
and uncaring person.
But then, Jehovah taught her what true love means.
The video is entitled, I put down my rifle,
and is available on video on demand in the interviews and experiences category.
Yes, love truly is the identifying mark of true Christian.
That's what stands out when you visit other congregations,
perhaps when traveling.
One good example is the Nung Hai congregation
in the north-eastern corner of Thailand.
The 32 publishers send their love.
There's a great need in Thailand,
which is why half of the 10 appointed brothers
in the congregation and half of the 18 pioneers are need-graders.
Witnessing carts have been set up at a nearby border crossing
with 10 languages regularly featured.
Many copies are placed with visitors from countries where our work is restricted.
Sometimes, over 1,000 pieces of literature are placed in a single day at the border crossing.
The Nung Hai congregation had the privilege of being a host congregation
when a special convention was arranged in October of last year.
And during the convention, they were surprised and overjoyed to hear
that the new world translation was now available in the Thai language.
We pray that Jehovah continue to bless the brothers and sisters in Thailand
and all of you around the world.
We love you very much.
This is JW Broadcasting from Brooklyn, New York.